feat: Add hook-data concept for hooks. (#273)
open-feature/spec: specification/sections/04-hooks.md

### Definitions

> **Hook**: Application author/integrator-supplied logic that is called by the OpenFeature framework at a specific stage.

Author: These were all on one line, which seemed hard to read. So I put a blank line between them to get them on multiple lines.

> **Stage**: An explicit portion of the flag evaluation lifecycle. e.g. `before` being "before the [resolution](../glossary.md#resolving-flag-values) is run. **Invocation**: A single call to evaluate a flag. `client.getBooleanValue(..)` is an invocation. **API**: The global API singleton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Stage**: An explicit portion of the flag evaluation lifecycle. e.g. `before` being "before the [resolution](../glossary.md#resolving-flag-values) is run.

**Invocation**: A single call to evaluate a flag. `client.getBooleanValue(..)` is an invocation.

**API**: The global API singleton.
```

> Condition: The provider `metadata` field in the `hook context` **MUST** be immutable.

> ### 4.3. Hook data

Author: I prefer not renumbering, but I did in this case as conceptually it makes sense to group all the parameter requirements together. I could move this to retain the existing numbering.

Reviewer 2: I think I prefer moving it to avoid the number thrashing. It's slightly inconvenient that things aren't grouped, but I think it's more important to attempt to maintain stability of the requirement numbers.

Author: I will update it.

for OpenTelemetry could be created in a `before` stage and closed in an `after` stage.

```Java
  public Optional<EvaluationContext> before(HookContext context, HookHints hints, HookData data) {
    SpanBuilder builder = tracer.spanBuilder('sample')
    .setParent(Context.current().with(Span.current()));
    Span span = builder.startSpan()
    data.set("span", span);
  }

  public void after(HookContext context, FlagEvaluationDetails details, HookHints hints, HookData data) {
    // Only accessible by this hook for this specific evaluation.
    Object value = data.get("span");
    if (value instanceof Span) {
      Span span = (Span) value;
      span.end();
    }
  }
```

#### Requirement 4.3.1

> `hook data` **MUST** be a structure supports definition of arbitrary properties, with keys of type `string`, and values of type `boolean | string | number | datetime | structure`.

### 4.4. Hook creation and parameters

#### Requirement 4.4.1

> Hooks **MUST** specify at least one stage.

#### Requirement 4.4.2

> `Hook data` **MUST** must be created before the first `stage` invoked in a hook for a specific evaluation and propagated between each `stage` of the hook.

> Example showing data between `before` and `after` stage for two different hooks.

Author: I am not sure if the diagram is overkill, but a key concept is that data is not shared between hooks and not shared between evaluations.

Reviewer 2: I think this is diagram-worthy.

### 4.3. Hook data

Hook data exists to allow hook stages to share data for a specific evaluation. For instance a span
for OpenTelemetry could be created in a `before` stage and closed in an `after` stage.

```Java
  public Optional<EvaluationContext> before(HookContext context, HookHints hints, HookData data) {
    SpanBuilder builder = tracer.spanBuilder('sample')
    .setParent(Context.current().with(Span.current()));
    Span span = builder.startSpan()
    data.set("span", span);
  }

  public void after(HookContext context, FlagEvaluationDetails details, HookHints hints, HookData data) {
    // Only accessible by this hook for this specific evaluation.
    Object value = data.get("span");
    if (value instanceof Span) {
      Span span = (Span) value;
      span.end();
    }
  }
```

#### Requirement 4.3.1

> `hook data` **MUST** be a structure supports definition of arbitrary properties, with keys of type `string`, and values of type `boolean | string | number | datetime | structure`.

### 4.4. Hook creation and parameters

#### Requirement 4.4.1

> Hooks **MUST** specify at least one stage.

#### Requirement 4.4.2

> > `Hook data` **MUST** must be created before the first `stage` invoked in a hook for a specific evaluation and propagated between each `stage` of the hook.

Reviewer 2: I think it's implied here, but not explicit, that hook data is scoped only to the hook instance in question. I think it might be worth adding a specific point about that, and perhaps even a recommendation or example of how it might be accomplished in some implementations.

Author: I added some more clarifying language a couple places.

Example showing data between `before` and `after` stage for two different hooks.
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor Application
participant Client
participant HookA
participant HookB

Application->>Client: getBooleanValue('my-bool', myContext, false)
activate Client

Client-->>Client: create hook data for HookA

Client->>HookA: before(hookContext, data: {})
activate HookA

HookA-->>HookA: data.set('key',' data for A')

HookA-->>Client: (return)
deactivate HookA

Client-->>Client: create hook data for HookB

Client->>HookB: before(hookContext, hints, data: {})
activate HookB

HookB-->>HookB: data.set('key', 'data for B')
deactivate HookB

Client-->>Client: Flag evaluation

Client->>HookB: after(hookContext, detail, hints, data: {key: 'data for B'})
activate HookB

HookB-->>Client: (return)
deactivate HookB

Client->>HookA: after(hookContext, data: {'key': 'data for A'})
activate HookA

HookA-->>Client: (return)
deactivate HookA

Client-->>Application: true
deactivate Client

```

#### Condition 4.4.2

> The implementation uses the dynamic-context paradigm.

see: [dynamic-context paradigm](../glossary.md#dynamic-context-paradigm)

##### Conditional Requirement 4.4.2.1

> > The `before` stage **MUST** run before flag resolution occurs. It accepts a `hook context` (required), `hook hints` (optional), and `hook data` (required) as parameters and returns either an `evaluation context` or nothing.

Reviewer 2: Should hook data be optional? I think most implementations could tolerate overloads for the stage functions:

```java
before(HookContext context, HookHints hints);
before(HookContext context, HookData data, HookHints hints);
```
This would mean that current hooks wouldn't break, I think.

The other option might be to add the `hook data` to the `hook context` object.

Author: I can think about the hook context. For the LD hooks the context was fully immutable, but for OpenFeature it isn't exactly the case being as the evaluation context within the hook context can change. So that makes it a potential home. It does make the mutability story a bit more complex.

Author: Updated to be in the hookContext.

#### Requirement 4.5.3

> The hook **MUST NOT** alter the `hook hints` structure.

### 4.6. Hook data

Hook data exists to allow hook stages to share data for a specific evaluation. For instance a span
for OpenTelemetry could be created in a `before` stage and closed in an `after` stage.

Hook data is scoped to a specific hook instance. The different stages of a hook share the same data,
but different hooks have different hook data instances.

```Java
  public Optional<EvaluationContext> before(HookContext context, HookHints hints) {
    SpanBuilder builder = tracer.spanBuilder('sample')
    .setParent(Context.current().with(Span.current()));
    Span span = builder.startSpan()
    context.hookData.set("span", span);
  }

  public void after(HookContext context, FlagEvaluationDetails details, HookHints hints) {
    // Only accessible by this hook for this specific evaluation.
    Object value = context.hookData.get("span");
    if (value instanceof Span) {
      Span span = (Span) value;
      span.end();
    }
  }
```

#### Requirement 4.6.1

> > `hook data` **MUST** be a structure supports definition of arbitrary properties, with keys of type `string`, and values of type `boolean | string | number | datetime | structure`.

Reviewer 3: I thing it needs to be `supporting`, but I might be reading it wrong.

```suggestion
> `hook data` **MUST** be a structure supporting the definition of arbitrary properties, with keys of type `string`, and values of type `boolean | string | number | datetime | structure`.
```
